1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

## 1. Structure of the REopt API 

The REopt® API is built primarily in Python, with the exception of the code used to call the optimization kernel, which is written in Julia. In the REopt_API version 3 and higher, the Julia JuMP model (and all of the supporting functions) are now housed in the publicly-registered Julia package, REopt.jl. The API is served using the Django framework, with a PostgreSQL database backend where input, output, and error data models are stored. Task management is achieved with Celery, which uses Redis as a message broker (a database for storing and retrieving Celery tasks). The figure below shows a how each of these pieces interact. 

**==> picture [522 x 257] intentionally omitted <==**

We typically update the API version when we make major changes to default values or breaking changes. Please see the documentation at https://developer.nrel.gov/docs/energy-optimization/reopt/ for REopt API versions and their urls. API v3 uses the REopt Julia Package as the optimization back-end, whereas v1 and v2 access an older version of this Julia code contained within the `julia_src` directory of the REopt_API 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 1 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

repository. The v3 Python code is housed in the `reoptjl` directory of this repository and the v1/v2 Python code in the `reo` directory. 

Base url: https://developer.nrel.gov/api/reopt/ 

API_KEY parameter must be added to url 

Run a REopt optimization: /job? 

Get the results of a REopt optimization: job/<run_uuid>/results? Get descriptions of possible inputs: /help? 

Get descriptions of possible inputs: /job/inputs? 

Get descriptions of possible outputs: /job/outputs? 

Get CHP defaults, which depend on other CHP inputs: /chp_defaults? Get absorption chiller defaults, which depend on other absorption chiller inputs: /absorption_chiller? 

Get grid emissions for a location: /emissions_profile? 

Get EASIUR health emissions cost data for a location: /easiur_costs? 

Get a simulated load profile: /simulated_load? 

Get a summary of a user's optimization jobs: /<user_uuid>/summary? Get a summary of a subset of a user's optimization jobs: 

/<user_uuid>/summary_by_chunk? 

Unlink an optimization job from a user: /<user_uuid>/unlink/<run_uuid>? Get outage start times centered or starting on peak load: /peak_load_outage_times? 

Check if a URDB label is in a set of invalid labels: /invalid_urdb? 

Get a summary of a yearly CHP unavailability profile: /schedule_stats? Run the ERP: /erp? 

Get the results of an ERP run: erp/<run_uuid>/results? 

Get descriptions of possible ERP inputs: /erp/help? Get descriptions of possible ERP inputs: /erp/inputs? 

Get descriptions of possible ERP outputs: /erp/outputs? 

We separate catagories of data involved in REopt API functionality into 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 2 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

subclasses of Django `Model` , which each correspond to a table in the database. Some `Model` s are for input values, some for outputs values, and some for warning/error messages. These Django `Models` are defined in the file _models.py_ . After making any changes to _models.py_ , to update the database accordingly, run in terminal: 

```
python manage.py makemigrations
```

## Relating **`Model`** s to each other 

Each `Model` except `APIMeta` has a `meta` attribute, which is used to link instances of that class to an instance of `APIMeta` . This is necessary for linking all the data of a REopt run stored in the database. The meta field can be of different types depending on the relationship between models. 

This class is used when there is only ever one instance of the class associated with each `APIMeta` , which goes for most classes. For example, this is how the `WindInputs` meta field is defined as follows: 

```
meta = models.OneToOneField(
    APIMeta,
    on_delete=models.CASCADE,
    related_name="WindInputs",
    primary_key=True
)
```

This class is used when there can be multiple instances of the class associated with each `APIMeta` , such as `PVInputs` , `PVOutputs` , and `Message` . For example, the `PVOutputs` meta field is defined as follows 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 3 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

```
meta = models.ForeignKey(
```

```
    to=APIMeta,
```

```
    on_delete=models.CASCADE,
```

```
    related_name="PVOutputs",
```

```
    unique=False
)
```

When defining data fields inside a `Model` subclass, we take advantage of Django's built-in functionality to: 

- validate field types 

- validate field min/max values 

- limit fields to certain values 

- set defaults 

- set whether fields are required 

- provide `help_text` for each field 

For example, the `timeout_seconds` field is constrained between 1 and 420 seconds with a default of 420: 

```
timeout_seconds = models.IntegerField(
```

```
    default=420,
```

- `validators=[` 

```
    ],
```

```
    help_text="The number of seconds allowed before the optimizat
```

```
)
```

## The following is an example of limiting a field value to a set of choices: 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 4 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

```
time_steps_per_hour = models.IntegerField(
    default=TIME_STEP_CHOICES.ONE,
    choices=TIME_STEP_CHOICES.choices,
```

```
    help_text="The number of time steps per hour in the REopt mod
)
```

where `TIME_STEP_CHOICES` is defined as: 

```
class TIME_STEP_CHOICES(models.IntegerChoices):
    ONE = 1
    TWO = 2
    FOUR = 4
```

When fields are not required to be provided by the user, we set the `blank` parameter to `True` . When the field also has no `default` , to allow it to be stored in the database as NULL, we set the `null` parameter to `True` (except for `CharField` and `TextField` which should be saved as /'/' when empty). 

## Defining **`Model`** 's **`clean`** method 

The Django `Model` class has a `clean` method that by default is empty. We can override this method to perform custom validation or set defaults with dependencies. 

We enforce input `Model` validation using the `InputValidator` class in _reoptjl/validators.py_ . First, the `InputValidator` class has a `clean_fields()` method that calls `Model.clean_fields()` on all of the input data models. This checks data types, min/max values, choices, and sets basic defaults. `InputValidator.clean()` calls the optionally overridden `Model.clean()` on each input model. Then we have an additional method 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 5 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

`InputValidator.cross_clean()` , which performs custom validation with intermodel dependencies. Finally, `InputValidator.save()` calls `save()` on all of the models to save the validated inputs in the database. 

## Accessing and modifying data in database 

To access data from the database, use the `get()` method. For example, to get the `APIMeta` object associated with the run uuid run_uuid, do: 

```
meta = APIMeta.objects.get(run_uuid=run_uuid)
```

We often need to access the data of multiple `Model` subclasses. Rather than doing a `get()` call for each, it is more efficient to do this in one database call using the `select_related()` method as shown in the example below. Any `Model` with a `OneToOneField` linking it to `APIMeta` can be specified as an argument here using the `related_name` provided when defining the `OneToOneField` . 

```
meta = APIMeta.objects.select_related(
    'Settings',
    'FinancialInputs',
```

```
    'SiteInputs',
```

```
    'ElectricLoadInputs',
```

```
).get(run_uuid=run_uuid)
```

The class `Job` in _reoptjl/api.py_ is an example of a `Resource` . It takes inputs and initiates a (v3) REopt optimization. In _reopt_api/urls.py_ , we create API versions and register `Resource` s to them by doing: 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 6 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

```
from tastypie.api import Api
from reoptjl.api import Job as Job3
from django.urls import include, re_path, path
v3_api = Api(api_name='v3')
v3_api.register(Job3())
urlpatterns = [..., re_path(r'', include(v3_api.urls)), ...]
```

`Job.Meta.resource_name = 'job'` determines the url of the `Job Resource` . Sending a request to /v3/job will create a `Job` instance. The equivalent will be true of any other `Resource` registered to `v3_api` . 

Another way of making a particular url (or url pattern) do something is using views, which are the functions in _reoptjl/views.py_ . In the REopt API we generally use views for endpoints that get data. In order to connect the url /v3/job/<run_uuid>/results to the `results` view function, we do the following in _reoptjl/urls.py_ : 

```
from . import views
```

```
urlpatterns = [..., re_path(r'^job/(?P<run_uuid>[0-9a-f-]+)/resul
```

And this in _reopt_api/urls.py_ , which adds all the urlpatterns in _reoptjl/urls.py_ : 

```
urlpatterns = [..., path('v3/', include('reoptjl.urls')), ...]
```

The `Job Resource` takes a POST request and runs REopt using these inputs. After handling of various metadata, an `InputValidator` is instantiated and used to validate the inputs using its methods described in the `InputValidator` section above. If inputs are valid, we create `run_jump_model` , which is a Celery `Task` defined in _reoptjl/src/run_jump_model.py_ . The 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 7 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

`run_jump_model Task` uses the provided run_uuid to get inputs from the database, POSTs this data to the Julia server to solve the optimization problem (see next section), handles erros, then processes and saves outputs to the database with a call to `process_results` . This `Task` is run asynchronously so that the API can continue to handle other requests without waiting for it to complete. Similarly, when an `ERPJob Resource` (defined in _resilience_stats/api.py_ ) is created, this asynchronously runs a Celery `Task` called `run_erp_task` . 

## Accessing the REopt Julia package from Python 

`Task` s like `run_jump_model` and `run_erp_task` , as well as some views in _reoptjl/views.py_ , use the REopt Julia package to fulfill requests. The _julia_src_ directory contains all the API's Julia code. A Julia HTTP server is defined in _julia_src/http.jl_ and requests to its endpoints can be written in Python. For example, in `run_jump_model` : 

```
julia_host = os.environ.get('JULIA_HOST', "julia")
response = requests.post("http://" + julia_host + ":8081/reopt/",
```

And in the `chp_defaults` view: 

```
julia_host = os.environ.get('JULIA_HOST', "julia")
http_jl_response = requests.get("http://" + julia_host + ":8081/c
```

In _julia_src/http.jl_ , these HTTP endpoints are each linked to a function in that file. For example, the /reopt endpoint is made to execute the function `reopt` via: 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 8 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

```
HTTP.@register(ROUTER, "POST", "/reopt", reopt)
```

The functions in _julia_src/http.jl_ can use functions from the REopt package (imported as reoptjl) and return data as an `HTTP.Response` . 

## Defaults set in the REopt Julia package 

Some inputs have defaults that are determined in the REopt Julia package rather than in the API before saving to the database (e.g. CHP defaults and emissions defaults that come from AVERT or EASIUR). This is done to avoid redundant code. In the `reopt` function in _julia_src/http.jl_ , these defaults are collected and included in the returned data so that the database can be updated appropriately. 

## Changing the REopt package version 

When developing the REopt API, one often needs the API to use a version of the REopt Julia package other than the latest version in the Julia Registry. To do this, navigate in a command terminal to _julia_src_ , start Julia using the local environment ( `julia --project=.` ), go to package manager ( `]` ), and do one of the following: 

- Registered REopt version: `add REopt@x.x.x` 

- Branch of REopt.jl on GitHub: `add REopt#branch-name` 

- Cloned REopt.jl in your local Julia _dev_ folder: `dev REopt` (also see Docker instructions specific to deving REopt) 

The REopt API has multiple endpoints. The endpoint for optimizing an energy system is described here. 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 9 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

## The steps behind an optimization are: 

1. A POST is made at `<host-url>/v2/job` (for a description of all input parameters GET `<host-url>/v2/help` ) 

2. `reo/api.py` validates the POST, sets up the four celery tasks, and returns a `run_uuid` 

3. `reo/scenario.py` sets up all the inputs for the two optimization tasks 

4. Two `reo/src/run_jump_model.py` tasks are run in parallel, one for the business-as-usual costs, and one for the minimum life cycle cost system 

5. `reo/process_results.py` processes the outputs from the two REopt tasks and saves them to database. 

From the user's perspective, the primary changes are: 

- Partial "flattening" of the inputs/outputs nested dictionaries (outer "Scenario" key has been removed and other models are no longer nested under the "Site" key). 

- Input/output reorganization and name changes for improved clarity (see the REopt analysis wiki for a full mapping between old and new inputs and outputs). 

For developers of the API, more significant changes have been made to improve the development experience. 

## Django Models and Input Validation 

In v1/v2, a single Django Model (and thus database table) contains both the inputs and outputs for each conceptual model (e.g. `PV` or `ElectricTariff` ). In v3 the inputs and outputs are split into two separate Models (eg. `ElectricTariffInputs` and `ElectricTariffOutputs` ). This division greatly 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 10 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

simplifies creating the API response as well as saving and updating the data models. 

In v1/v2, for each REopt optimization job, all Django Models are created and saved in the database. In v3, only the tables of Models relevant to the job a have rows inserted. For example, if a scenario is not modeling `Wind` then no `WindInputs` nor `WindOutputs` are instantiated and no "Wind" key would be present in the API response data. 

## **`InputValidator.clean_fields()`** 

In v1/v2, the `nested_inputs_definitions` is used as a source of data types, limits, defaults, and descriptions, which is used in `ValidateNestedInput` to validate user's POSTs. In v3, we take advantage of Django's built-in data validation to accomplish most of what `ValidateNestedInput` does. When defining fields of Django Models, we can use optional parameters to: 

- validate field types 

- validate field min/max values 

- limit fields to certain values 

- set defaults 

- set whether fields are required 

- provide `help_text` for each field In v3, after instantiating a Django model with a user's input values we call the `Model.clean_fields()` method on all of the input data models. This method checks data types, min/max values, choices, and sets defaults. Calling the `Model.clean_fields` 

- method is done in the new `InputValidator` (in _reoptjl/validators.py_ ) for every input model. 

The Django `Model` also has a `clean` method that by default is empty. In v3, we over-ride this method to perform custom validation as needed. Using the 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 11 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

`InputValidator` class, we call the `Model.clean()` method on all of the input models (after calling the `Model.clean_fields()` method). 

## **`InputValidator.cross_clean()`** 

Finally, there are some cases for input validation that require comparing fields from two different Django `Models` . For example, the length of any timeseries input value, such as `ElectricLoadInputs.loads_kw` , needs to align with the `Settings.time_steps_per_hour` . This type of cross-model validation is done after the `clean_fields` and `clean` methods, and is called `cross_clean` . The `cross_clean` method is part of the `InputValidator` and is called in _reoptjl/api.py_ as the final step for validating the job inputs. 

In v1/v2, each optimization job consists of four celery tasks ( `setup_scenario` , one optimal and one bau `run_jump_model` , and `process_results` ). In v3, there is only one celery task per optimization job. This has been accomplished by running the BAU and optimal scenarios in parallel in the Julia code and combining the scenario set up and post process steps into a single celery task. 

In v1/v2, the _julia_src/_ directory includes the code to build and optimize the JuMP model. In v3, this is housed in a publicly registered Julia pacakge. This means that the JuMP model (and all of the supporting functions) are now in a separate repository and can be used with just a few lines of Julia code without accessing the REopt API. For example: 

```
using REopt, Cbc, JuMP
model = JuMP.Model(Cbc.Optimizer)
results = REopt.run_reopt(m, "path/to/scenario.json")
```

## In v3 of the API we use the REopt Julia package in a similar fashion (see 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 12 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

_julia_src/http.jl_ ). Note that in v3 the Business as Usual and Optimal scenarios are run in parallel by the REopt package, and running the BAU scenario is optional (via `Settings.run_bau` input). 

## Migration of Python code to Julia 

In creating the Julia Module (or "package") for REoptLite much of the inputs set up code and post-processing has shifted from the API to the Julia package. By porting the setup and post-processing code to the Julia package anyone can now use REoptLite in Julia _alone_ , which makes it much easier to add inputs/outputs, create new constraints, and in general modify REoptLite as one sees fit. 

For past and recent developers of the REopt Lite API, here is a pseudo-map of where some of API code responsibilities has been moved to in the Julia package: 

- _reo/src/techs.py_ -> broken out into individual files for each tech in the _src/core/_ directory, e.g. _pv.jl_ , _wind.jl_ , _generator.jl_ 

- _reo/scenario.py_ -> _src/core/scenario.jl_ 

- _reo/src/pvwatts.py_ + _wind_resource.py_ + _wind.py_ + _sscapi.py_ -> _src/core/prodfactor.jl_ 

- _reo/src/data_manager.py_ + _julia_src/utils.jl_ -> _src/core/reopt_inputs.jl reo/process_results.py_ -> _src/results/_ contains a main _results.jl_ as well as results generating functions for each data structure (e.g. _src/results/pv.jl_ ) 

- _julia_src/reopt_model.jl_ -> _src/core/reopt.jl_ + _src/constraints/*_ 

Also, here is a pseudo-map of where some of the reo/ code is now handled in the reoptjl/ app: 

## _reo/nested_inputs.py_ + _nested_outputs.py_ + _models.py_ -> 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 13 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

## _reoptjl/models.py_ 

- _reo/process_results.py_ -> _reoptjl/src/process_results.py_ (only saving results to database now since results are created in Julia) 

- _reo/api.py_ -> _reoptjl/api.py_ 

_reo/views.py_ -> _reoptjl/views.py_ 

reo/src/run_jump_model.py -> reoptjl/src/run_jump_model.py 

For more information on the Julia package please see the developer section in the Julia package documentation. 

## Modifications of mathematical model 

The primary change to the mathematical model in the new `reoptjl` endpoint is that all binary variables (and constraints) are added _conditionally_ . For example, when modeling `PV` , `Wind` , and/or `Storage` without a tiered `ElectricTariff` no binary variables are necessary. However, adding a `Generator` or a tiered `ElectricTariff` does require binaries. 

Also related to binary variables, the approach to modeling the net metering vs. wholesale export decision has been simplified: 

In v1 the approach to the NEM/WHL binaries is as follows. First, `binNMIL` is used to choose between a combined tech capacity that is either above or below `net_metering_limit_kw` . There are two copies of each tech model made for both the above or below `net_metering_limit_kw` . If the combined tech capacity is below `net_metering_limit_kw` then the techs can export into the `NEM` bin (i.e. take advantage of net metering). If the combined tech capacity is greater than `net_metering_limit_kw` then the techs can export into the `WHL` bin. In either case the techs can export into the `EXC` bin. Second, this approach also requires a tech-to-techclass map and binaries for constraining one tech from each tech class - where the tech class contains 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 14 of 15 

1. Structure of the REopt API · NatLabRockies/REopt_API Wiki 

4/16/26, 10:33 AM 

the tech that can net meter and the one that can wholesale. 

In the new approach of the new `reoptjl` endpoint there there is no need for the tech-to-techclass map and associated binaries, as well as the duplicate tech models for above and below `net_metering_limit_kw` . Instead, indicator constraints are used (as needed) for `binNEM` and `binWHL` variables, whose sum is constrained to 1 (i.e. the model can choose only `NEM` or `WHL` , not both). `binNEM` is used in two pairs of indicator constraints: one for the 

`net_metering_limit_kw` vs. `interconnection_limit_kw` choice and another set for the `NEM` benefit vs. zero `NEM` benefit. The `binWHL` is also used in one set of indicator constraints for the `WHL` benefit vs. zero `WHL` benefit. The `EXC` bin is only available if `NEM` is chosen. 

## See 

https://github.com/NREL/REoptLite/blob/d083354de1ff5d572a8165343bfea 11054e556fc/src/constraints/electric_utility_constraints.jl for details. 

https://github.com/NatLabRockies/REopt_API/wiki/1.-Structure-of-the-REopt-API 

Page 15 of 15 

